# MonitoringTumor
This is a part of my M.Sc. thesis. 
Monitoring heterogeneous tumors changes during treatment for patients with cancer by estimating apparent diffusion coefficient
Abstract:
Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the world. Globally, lung cancer is the main reason of approximately 18.4% of deaths caused by cancer. The significant rise in the number of smokers is also caused an increase in the number of people suffering from lung cancer in the current status quo. The most efficient way to reduce the mortality caused by lung cancer is early diagnosis and effective monitoring of patients' conditions. Recently, with the development of medical imaging methods, diagnosis, and monitoring methods by CT-scan, MRI, and other imaging approaches are being applied. These methods are beneficial tools for physicians and experts who want to decide about the implication of the various kinds of treatment methods, monitoring the progress trends of disease or evaluating the effectiveness of applied treatment.
Estimating Apparent Diffusion Coefficient (ADC) is one of the challenges of this field of study for researchers. There are various approaches to estimate the ADC with the use of statistical and mathematical approaches in Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DW-MRI) which is a magnetic resonance imaging techniques. Having been previously used in the conducted research, there were some methods to estimate the ADC of a homogenous tumor while in this research, the objective is to cluster the heterogeneous tumors and estimate the ADC for each part of the simulated DW image of tumor accurately based on Data Mining and Statistical methods.
